---
layout: post
title: "questioning the hot hand"
date: 2015-11-27
categories: jekyll update
---

lately i've been starting to relearn probability on coursera, for the sake of future data analysis projects/the fact that i felt as if i didn't learn it well enough during my past course. one of the most interesting things i've learned this week was the disproving of the hot hand phenomenon. 

for all who don't know, or are too lazy to google, here's a quick summary: the hot hand phenomenon is the idea of a *hot streak* in basketball. in otherwords, if a player is making an unordinary amount of shots in a row, then the team should keep passing to him/her, with hopes of scoring even more. 

statistically, the idea of a hot hand can be disproved (supposedly, i mean, i'm not really a statistician). observe the idea of a player making one shot for every two taken, well that's about a 50% likelihood of making the basket. we compare this to a coin toss, where a coin has a 50% likelihood of landing heads. now ask yourself, what is the likehood that a coin will land heads __at least__ a consecutive five times out of fifty tosses? statistically this occurs around 55% (unfortunately, i'm not at a level where i can provide the calculations for that just yet).

now the question to ask; is the hot hand phenomenon really disproven? i mean there sure are statisical factors to note, however my friends were discussing the idea of independent probability and dependent probability. as an athlete who spent about eight years playing sports, i'm inclined to agree that there's more to the disproval of the hot hand streak than just a coin toss. anyways, this is just the first taste of probability i've had in a long time and it's made me really excited to explore this side of math again. hopefully i'll be able to make some time and work on some new projects soon.  
