---
layout: post
title: "Notes from bell hooks in times of confusion"
date: 2020-05-10
categories: jekyll update
---

2020 has been a year of confusion. From relationships, friendships, and family -- we've all witnessed some friction within all those categories. As always, I've appreciated solitude; however this isn't a time of solitude. This has been a time of frenzy, watching our futures hang in uncertainty as we idly watch others die left and right. When there are times of confusion, I go back to my books. I joke with my friend that if it weren't for literature, I'd probably die. He thought I was joking at first, until he realizing I wasn't batting my eye. Yikes.

As of recently, I've decided to re-read bell hook's _all about love_. My current notes on it thus far (apologies for the disorder):

* _"He defines love as 'the will to extend one's self for the purpose of nurturing one's own or another's spiritual growth.'"_
* _"'Love is as love does. Love is an act of will-namely both an intention and an action. Will also implies choice. We do not have to love. We choose to love.'"_
* _"Spiritual practice does not need to be connected to organized religion in order to be meaningful. Some individuals find their sacred connection to life communing with the natural world and engaging in practices that honor life-sustaining ecosystems."_

I'm still working my way through this book, processing it slowly as I find that we poorly define love. Hopefully I'll be able to reach a conclusion.
